ultimately all of da foz riches are
sustained by the sea
and the sea itself is undergoing a
radical transformation warm surface
waters are being dragged away sucked to
the north by the mighty Indian monsoon
an oceanic vacuum is created and
something must fill the space
cold water welds up from the depths
bringing nutrients from the seafloor
with it
chilled water also holds more oxygen and
more oxygen means more life as the
temperature drops these seas are
transforming into some of the richest in
the world
microscopic plankton flourish and an
explosion of life begins
fish from every corner of the Indian
Ocean have come to feed
fusiliers blue triggerfish and graceful
devil rays some have traveled from as
far as Australia to enjoy these riches
this is why the humpbacks never leave
they don't need to migrate to cold
waters to feed cold water comes to them
and this bounty attracts one species
that arrives not in thousands not even
millions the indian oil sardine arrives
in billions
a single show can be over 3 miles long
by moving in unison they confuse
predators
rains are too slow
Socotra cormorants struggled to pick a
target
but synchronized-swimming won't protect
them from the ocean's most voracious
predator man the arrival of the sardines
means the Jubilee mountain men become
part-time fishermen
over half a million tons of fish will be
brought in
you